Next, we're going to install
the TypeScript compiler, so here we go.
Yarn add -D for devDependency,
typescript@5.3.0-beta.
What I would prefer you do if
you're doing this at home, and
it's later than the recording, I would
want you to do something like this.
~5.3.0, that'll get you
the latest TypeScript 5.3.
We're explicitly specifying
this just cuz we're using this.
I expect 5.3 to be cut like
next week as a stable release.
So this is a very refined beta.
Great, and we can see evidence
that it was installed right here.
Okay, so we have TypeScript installed.
Now, we need a tsconfig file, right.
This is what we use to configure.
How TypeScript compiles our code.
And this is another big JSON file
that if we were to create it by hand,
we certain could.
But if you've done this enough
that you've memorized all of
the different keys that you wanna apply,
maybe you do that.
Here's what I tend to do, yarn tsc --init,
this is what I was getting --init from.
You run that And here's your output here.
It said it created a new tsconfig with,
and
then a bunch of different settings here.
And it gives you a link where you
can learn more about tsconfig.
I saw a reaction in class
that this seems to be it.
>> I was just surprised by it not
only filled in those defaults.
But every other possible compiler
option with a comment about what that
compiler option does.
It was just a surprise is all.
>> It's a surprise.
So, for one it's a lot in this file.
If you're just starting
out with TypeScript or
it's nice to have the comments here.
This isn't adding any
weight to your project.
It does, every single option
commented out lets you uncomment it.
There are a couple things
in here I don't like, and
I'm gonna explain why I don't like them.
So we're gonna begin the process of going
through and changing some of these things.
And I've arranged these
changes from top to bottom so
you can just follow along with me.
If you're looking on the course website,
they're also arranged like
section by section, right.
So we're gonna start with the target
property and move down from there.
So for the target this describes
the target JavaScript language version.
So a great way to think about this is like
before ES2017, there was no async await.
And that means TypeScript's build output.
Will not use the async or await keyword.
They'll have an elaborate polyfill
that makes that code run as it should.
But it's not true async and await, as in
you won't see that in the output code.
So we're gonna bump this up to 2022.
Next we're gonna go into this
section called modules down here.
And commonjs is what we want here for
the modules.
We're gonna define a rootDir.
And this is important because it
affects auto imports a little bit and
in effect, sort of If you
were to publish this package.
You don't wanna be like library
name/source/module name.
You just wanna be like
library name/module name.
So we're gonna make that change by saying,
look,
the src folder is where all my code is.
Next, we're going to
uncomment this types array.
Feel free to think that
I'm a little OCD here.
What we're saying here
is we have to specify
the type packages that
are allowed in this project.
Normally, you'd be able to access
anything in your package JSON.
If you have an at types package,
which we'll talk about later,
type information you download for
a library that is written in JavaScript.
It doesn't publish its own types.
Normally, you'd have access to
everything in your package JSON.
What I don't like about that is that,
let's say we download the types for
Jest, which we wanna
use only in our tests.
TypeScript will kinda let you import
the Jest library in your live
application like it's easy to
sort of cross the wires there.
And being explicit about this like
it can become unmanageable for
projects with tons and
tons of dependencies.
But it's I like to at least start
out with a library like this.
Having very deliberate control
over what my dependencies are.
And that way, I don't sort of write
the name of a function and then.
Not looking closely enough and
I auto-import it, and
it ends up being like something I
just use for build or for tests.
I don't necessarily want all of that
to go along with my published code.
The next thing we'll change it's in
another section here in the emit section.
So this set of compiler options describes
how TypeScript emits your code.
Right, what ends up in that dist folder?
We're going to enable declarations,
which means our TypeScript
source code will compile out to
not only runnable JavaScript.
But you'll get the types that represent
that JavaScript side-by-side in
the dist folder.
By default, you don't get these.
You can opt in by enabling
declaration true.
We're gonna define the outDir.
This is the build output Dir,
and we're gonna make this dist.
StripInternal is interesting.
We'll talk more about this when we deal
with something called API extractor.
Which is super useful for libraries,
we're going to deal with
it in this project here.
You can add a JSDoc
comment tag at internal
to like a function for example.
And what this does is it makes sure
that anything you've marked as
internal will be stripped out
of the type declarations.
This is useful because sometimes you wanna
export a function and it's just there,
maybe it's just there for
testing purposes, right.
So that in your test harness, you can call
into this thing and maybe it's sort of.
I don't know, maybe you use a date in
the function that's publicly called.
And you want some inner part of that
logic where you provide a date.
So you can write a nice stable
test that will not have
the randomness of the now date in it.
But this will let you kind of
expose things technically out of
the package without them ending
up in your declaration file.
EsModuleInterop they
have this set to true.
Cuz their typed script
wants to sort of get people
moving towards the MGS,
the ES module file format.
I think this is an appropriate
setting to leave enabled for an app.
For a leaf level dependency, meaning
something that nothing else depends on.
I tend to leave this false and it's
because if you enable this in the library.
And when you enable this, you're almost
saying MyTypes normally would not work.
They would not compile.
But if I enable this flag,
MyTypes will compile.
And what ends up happening is
you generate types in many
cases where anyone else who
needs to compile their code.
Which includes your types,
if they depend on your library,
they also must turn this flag on.
And when I'm writing libraries,
I don't like to force my consumers
to change their tsconfig
just to make my stuff work.
So I tend to leave this off for
libraries specifically.
Completeness, okay,
I really don't know why they leave
this set to true, by default.
SkipLibCheck, let's look at what this is.
It says skip type
checking all .d.ts files.
Effectively, if you
leave this set to true.
You will not, like,
if there are type errors that appear in
declaration files within your node
modules folder, ignore those.
And that may seem not so
harmful in the beginning, right.
It's tempting when you see those those
like type checking errors in your node
modules folder.
It's tempting to just wanna turn this
on and say, well, if I turn this on,
I won't get these errors anymore.
But remember,
type checking is a holistic operation.
You want the types in your code to work
very nicely with types in library code.
In the fundamentals, and
intermediate TypeScript courses,
we talked about different ways
of structuring your code.
Can make errors appear
in different places.
There are different ways of writing code.
That sometimes it would make an error
like a type checking error pop up in
the node modules folder.
When really you need to adjust your
app code in order to make it work.
So I tried to leave this set to false,
I don't like skipLibCheck for that reason.
I want there to be no compile errors
in this whole list of operation.
Which includes MyTypes,
my dependencies types,
all of that ends up being the code
that I ship to my users, right.
So I tend to leave this set to false.
I want no errors anywhere
if I can get away from it.
You get away with it.
I've never actually found
a need to turn this on.
If your node modules types
are objecting to something,
it could be a sign you're
using a dependency realm.
One more section here that
we kinda skipped over.
But I wanted to do this last cuz it's
kind of one of the more interesting ones,
that type checking section.
So this is where we're going to enable
some nice strong type checking.
As I would if I were writing
a TypeScript library from scratch.
This is not my starting point,
if I'm trying to convert a JavaScript
code base to TypeScript.
I start with a much less restrictive type
checking configuration in that case.
But here, we're just gonna enable a couple
things that kind of make a lot of sense.
So we'll enable no implicit and we'll
talk about each of these in detail and
what they do in the next chapter.
UseUnknownInCatchVariables we'll
turn that on.
No unused locals and
parameters will turn that on.
ExactOptionalPropertyTypes will
turn that on.
And then noImplicitReturns turn that on.
I leave this one off like no
fall through cases and switch.
I think this is a taste thing
I would never judge anyone for
preferring to say I don't
like fall through cases.
And switch meaning like a case clause
where you don't have a break at
the end of it.
I consider that to be
kind of like a feature.
Sometimes you can design things that way.
Some might argue that.
You really have to look at all of the case
clauses to make sure you understand
what's going on.
But this is up to taste as far as I'm
concerned noUncheckedIndexedAccess.
NoImplicitOverride and
noPropertyAccessFromIndexSignature.
I left some of these unchecked because we
could enable no implicit this as well.
These things are included in strict.
You could turn them on.
It's not harmful but it's redundant.
Strict covers those things.
You notice how they're the words that
are the options starting with strict.
It makes it easy to remember,
it's very rare for
new things like this to appear.
I think this one was one of the more
recent ones, which was TypeScript 2.8.
That's like one of the last times
they added something in strict mode.
So, like point being.
If you enable this, it's like
a pretty stable set of things, and
a lot of the new options end up being like
things you have to explicitly turn on.
Always strict, this is not strict mode.
This is JavaScript, use strict.
But because of the type of modules we're
outputting, it's implicitly strict mode.
There is no, we're saying ES 2022,
like everything after ES 2015
must be using strict mode.
You can't have classes unless
you're in strict mode.
It's this turning this on would
mean you're writing some seriously,
or disabling this.
Would mean you're writing some
really old Javascript for IE 10.
Let's add one more thing to
the bottom here, and it's include.
And this describes the code that
we want to be type checked.
So we'll add our src folder there cuz
that's where our source code is gonna be.
We're gonna add one more file here.
We're gonna, we have an ESLintConfig
that's gonna appear when we install
our linter, and it's a JavaScript file.
And adding it here,
because our ESLintConfig is gonna want to
look at our TypeScript tsconfig,
we should include it here.
And once we have the ESLintConfig in
place, I'll just, to show what happens,
I'll delete this.
And we'll see that it'll light up and
say, I'm a JavaScript file, and
I should be linted.
But I'm not in the js campaign.